Problems with some levels.

    If a problem was "(REMEDIED)" Then something else changed to make
it no longer an issue.
    If a problem was "(FIXED)" Then design saved the day somehow by 
altering the level content.
    A * means a still present problem.

(FIXED) Medical doorways (sideways ones) seem too small
(REMEDIED) the side of the sanitation building is impossible to scale.
(FIXED) Sliding part of sewers part 3 is too low
(FIXED) The sliding part of the Cryo Storage is undoable.  Make more space.
(FIXED) Swinging lights in office stage not climbable.
(FIXED) Glass doesn't always hurt in Cryo storage.
(FIXED) Slush not splined in cryolab
(FIXED) Slush not splined in cryo boss zone.
(FIXED) First cage in the Zoo impassable
(FIXED) Zoo betaworld tiles display as garbage
(FIXED) The sliding part of sewers part 3 needs a death segment
(FIXED) Broken elevator in beta world of offices appears to be shut.
(FIXED) Office alpha world has purple plants... PURPLE PLANTS!
(FIXED) The sliding scenes in Cryo storage are displayed unlike they appear
(FIXED) Can't enter genetics lab at all!
(REMEDIED) Weird Roman column looking glass in the zoo in beta, around 1015, 776
(FIXED) Exit doors in skywalk don't look useable.
(FIXED) Office Jumps unreasonable
(FIXED) First jump in the lights scene in offices a little cruel.
(FIXED) Falling doesn't kill you in Quantum Grid.
(FIXED) Falling doesn't kill you in Shifter bossfight.
(REMEDIED) Can't see clouds very much in genetics stage.
(FIXED) Defunct spline types exist in the sanitation stage.
(REMEDIED) Defunct spline types exist in the rooftop 2 stage.
(FIXED) Defunct spline types exist in the cryolab and cryoboss stages.
(FIXED) Defunct spline types exist in the sewers.
(FIXED) Glass in cryolab phase-jump scene on top shouldn't be.  Too hard.
(REMEDIED) Garbage in commonly use cloud layer (medical, etc.)
(FIXED) Final Climb has spikes you can't get past.
(FIXED) Climb in roof1 won't be possible when safety scan is in
(FIXED) Fade the fallen pillars in offices.
(FIXED) Put in doors in office for Billy
(FIXED) you can see player infront of that secretish ladder place in cold storage.
(FIXED) Hole in first fence in vehicle yard not visible.
(FIXED) Passable platform in Sanitation has ladder infront of it instead of behind.
(FIXED) Slide-able shafts in Sanitation too high.
(FIXED) Fore-ground tanks in Sanitation obscure vision too much.
(FIXED) Falling doesn't kill you in final climb.
(FIXED) More exciting area needed in cryolab for Quinn to explore.
* at 1944 y 440 in the grid is an unreasonably placed ledge.
* Culvern in icesewers between ice columns dissappears in beta.
* Quinn can get out of medical and not get back in before rescuing everyone.