--------
EYE-CLIPS
----
The AI info document.
"Time to put on EYE CLIPS..."


HUMANS
------
"And my human attorney..."


TROOPERS

All troopers have the human morale system.  They all can duck, jump,
climb ladders, and most can throw grenades.  All troopers will be
aware not to shoot their comrades.  If a trooper is engaging a foe and
knows a comrade is behind him, he'll duck, allowing his comrade to
shoot over him.  If there is a captain nearby, troopers will follow
him and get morale boosts.  If he dies, their morale suffers.
Troopers won't attack Billy, unless Billy majorly goes mad and kills
lots of his friends.  But in Billy quest there won't be many
opportunities to kill other troopers.  Troopers won't attack Minos,
Juno, or Daedelus immediately.  If Any of these representatives choose
to slay troopers on their quest, then troopers will panic and
run. Here are notes on the colour variants.

GREEN - Dip troopers.  Shoot at ED beasts briefly then run.  Greatest
extreme variation between brave and scared.  Never uses grenades.

BLUE - Less afraid.  Now knows to use grenades in this way: tosses
them off ledges to foes below.

RED - When behind two comrades (who are firing in formation already)
will jump and toss grenades.  Organizes ambush points with comrades in
wide open areas where they can give foes a pelting as they approach.

BLACK - Waits for Sam at the tops of ladders.  Duck and jump to dodge
waves or attacks from player characters.  When black troopers see that
the foe is temporarily incapacitated, (like just got hit) they chuck a
grenade.


SNIPERS

Snipers all know that their only hope is to attack from afar, so once
they have gotten too close, they flee.  They can't jump or climb
ladders.  All Snipers can aim at their target.  After changing the aim
orientation of the gun, they cannot fire for certain amounts of time,
depending on their leetness.

GREEN SNIPERS - They aim at the target and fire as soon as they are
ready.  They try to fire twice or more.

BLUE SNIPERS - They aim at the target and fire as soon as they can.
They know better than to fire more than once.  After firing once, they
run as far as they can and then get ready for the next shot.

RED SNIPERS - They aim at where the target is going to be based on
it's movement and wait for it to get into that line.  When it is
there, they fire.  After firing they run.

ELITE SNIPERS - Just like RED snipers, but they have burst fire rifles
that fire 3 quick shots.


ROBOTS
------
"Robin, no laser sights at the dinner table."
"-phvvvvvvt!"


STEVEDROIDS

These are heavy hovering metal fat-guy torsos that can build up lots
of speed.  Stevedroids pitch forward and backward as they move, like
rot-scale helicopters.  These try to line up with threats
horizontally, and shoot their little plasma bursts sparingly at the
enemy (These use the ion ephemeral).  They like to back off slowly and
fire if the threat gets to close.  While they are capable of
frightening top speeds, they accelerate very slowly.  So if you keep
on top of things it's easy to catch up to a Steve.


TINYBOTS (Ngaire's Glittering Kids)

Tinybot is a secret to EVERYBODY!  These are secret floor patrolers
who like to stop briefly in front of the hero and play their hooting
sample.


INTERCEPTORS

Fast flying robots that really wanna collide with heroes.  They emit a
constant threatening buzz that changes pitch dependent their velocity.
They detonate if they collide with actors or play-field too hard.
Their explosions are huge and damaging.  It should be fairly common to
see a player defeat one by jumping over it and letting it swoop into a
wall and explode.


SANIBOTS - Sanitation maintenance bots

These are not interesting in attacking or fleeing.  They are there
merely for atmosphere.  They will dip into various vats and slowly
float around, looking busy.


TURRETS

Are these robots?  Sure.  When the target is close and lined up, the
turret will make a scary beep wait for a period of time (dependant on
color) and fire a whole clip.  It's clip-size is also dependant on
what type it is.

GREEN - A great delay after beeping, and a 5 bullet clip.

BLUE - A Short delay after beeping, and a 15 bullet clip.

RED - Hardly any delay, 30 bullet clip.

ELITE - Hardly any delay, and no clip limit; stops firing as soon as
there is no target lined up, and fires again as soon as something is.


BIO ORGANISMS
-------------
"Why did EA want that protein solution?  Chans.  Lots of them."


CRAWLER

Crawler will have both advancing and retreating (walking backwards
animation).  Crawler will face whatever it wants to kill, and strike
with claws when in range.  Crawler will quickly and insectishly walk
backwards every time it sees someone attack.  So Sam will have to get
pretty close to succeed in hitting it, as it will skitter back with
every wave.
In the case of being beaten from afar by Quinn, Billy, or Minos, after
taking a few painful hits, from far away, it will turn around and run
as far away as it can.


RONALD-WORM

Ronald worm patrols surfaces, rotating his sprite appropriately as he
crawls on different angled surfaces.


RIPPER

Rippers are fast moving common creatures.  Rippers move strictly by
jumping.  To move forward they do repeated low hops, and when they
want to get up on something they jump very high, capable of clearing a
9 tile obstacle.
They like to rip up anything that's not too much bigger than them, so
that includes all humans.
Once they have decided what their prey is, they will be still and wait
for it to get near.  After the prey is a little less than a screen
length away, they jump at it, going over any obstacle to get to their
prey, and then they use their close range attack repeatedly unless the
prey moves, in which case they jump to follow it.


GERTRUDE

This crab thing moves slowly along surfaces.  It will speed up when it
sees a human on the floor with it.  It will approach the human and ram
it's ankles.  It's dangerous to the touch.


GLENN

Glenn is slow.  He can only walk and stumble towards what he badly
wants to punch.  When he gets close enough to punch he will,
repeatedly.


LILLYPAIN

LillyPain flies around slowly in round, curvy paths.  It will decide
to attack anything that moves too fast.  Then it will attempt to get
lined up to it and puke one of it's fireballs at it. (ephem/shell)
After taking a shot, it will take some curved swoops around until it
takes the next.



SAM'S BOSSES
------------
"If these guys are dead, and the music is still playing..."


MINOS, FIRST ENCOUNTER

In this battle Minos can't look as if he's really trying.  The
play-field in this scene is an unscrolling screen, completely open.  

If Sam is far away (half the screen or more) Minos will stand on the
ground and fire blades at him.  In this volley, he'll add a charged
one after about three shots.  If Sam is in the air, Minos will try to
line up the shots with Sam by jumping and firing a normal blast at
him.

Minos will jump in to take point-blank shots at Sam after missing from
far away a couple times.  Minos will run in at Sam, and try to phase
back and forth to get behind Sam and pound on his back.  After getting
behind Sam, he'll attack as much as he can before the player reacts
(by running away or attacking back) then he'll get far back again to
start shooting from their.  He'll either jump over Sam or phase past
him to get to an open area to go into that pattern again.

If the player breaks the distance instead of Minos, during the
distance attacks, Minos will choose to try and re-establish the
shooting from a distance pattern if Sam is not staying on the ground.
If Sam is staying mostly on the ground during his approach, Minos will
want to charge once Sam gets more than halfway across.

After 'defeating him' he should jump really high and phase out, and
the music should cease, allowing the player to walk away in silence.


THE R.I.V.A. MACHINE

In this battle the area scrolls within horizontal limits, and scrolls
up vertically uninhibited (there is only a small vertical space in the
level in this case).

The limits are set up just beyond each pile of drums.  

RIVA spins and moves quickly across the ground and can stop on a dime.
RIVA likes to dash forward at Sam and just before colliding with him,
jump backwards while firing.  RIVA's projectiles are the 'ion'
ephemeral.

RIVA's shots fire from her guns with varied trajectories, that are not
random, and are not aimed at Sam, but rather a slightly fanning volley
that is always the same.

If Sam is close enough to RIVA and out of the way of the path of the
laser shots, she will charge at Sam, seeking to thrash him with the
whirling legs.  It will be impossible to jump over this attack, so the
player must be prepare to phase.

In all the players phasing, RIVA will phase very soon after, in the
middle of whatever she is doing.

Defeat RIVA, and watch her explode violently!


DAEDELUS

Like the first Minos encounter, Daedelus is pre-spawned and waiting
for Sam at the end of Sewers part III.  

Daedelus' approach to combating Sam is of choosing which of his three
attacks he will try to arrange to do next.

If he wants to do a normal standing punch, he will run at Sam across
the ground, phasing out and then in for actual contact (for tricky
coolness) and deliver the blow.  If Sam jumps this, Daedelus will just
turn around and move to the spot where he expects Sam to land and wait
ducking there to hit Sam with his uppercut.

If he wants to uppercut Sam, he will run and duck (His uppercut has to
be executed from ducking) and slide a little in and deck Sam in the
chops.  He will start this approach with a jump and do the duck slide
slightly after landing.

If Daedelus wants to do his jumping strike, he will run, jump, phase
out, then in again when he's about ready to connect with Sam.

All of Daedelus' choices of phasing will be canceled if Sam moved
into the phase wherein it would be easier to just get him there.  The
only way Sam can dodge Daedelus' attacks by phasing is by doing so at
the very last minute, because Daedelus has the reaction time of a
pretty quick human when it comes to being in the right phase at the
right time.

Daedelus chooses to dash if he's about to collide with Sam on the
ground for other reasons, as in if Sam gets in the way of his dashing
in to punch.

The case for Sam interrupting his plans of doing his jump smash, like
the dashing thing, he will just clobber Sam in the face in mid air
with the air strike attack.


CRYOBOT

The entire area of the boss room is explore-able in this battle.  

From the Cryobot's upper appendages fire fast straight lasers (using
the ray ephemeral).  The arms move to line these up with Sam
vertically and fire the laser every two seconds.

The Cryobot's lower appendages project slow moving dissipating clouds
of iciness that really hurt (These are using the icemist ephemeral).
They do this anytime Sam is in range.  But after doing it, they cannot
do it again until the projected cloud fades out.  The clouds take
about 2 and a half seconds to fade out, and fly about 48 pixels before
completely fading out.

The four limbs and the body of the Cryobot are individually damage-able
by Sam's waves.  The body is initially not easily hit because the arms
are there.  Sam must individually destroy the limbs to get an easy
shot at the body.

The Cryobot's approach is to hover toward Sam slowly while each of
it's arms are doing their thing.  Sam had better get under it and to
the other side when the Cryobot has squeezed him into a trap, which is
constantly what it's doing.

The Cryobot changes it's approach when only certain limbs are left
behind.  When there 1 or 2 laser limbs remaining, it will arrange the
guns in patterns that are horizontally parallel and fire two shots at
once at Sam at a rate twice as fast as before.  When there are 1 or 2
ice jets left, the arms wave in circles (not maniacally, but
mechanically) all around the body leaving deadly mist trails
encircling the body.  There should be no way for Sam to jump in past
the mist circle created if there is 2 arms.  Sam will only be able to
hit the arms and destroy them.  If there is only 1 ice spewing arm
left, Sam might be able to get one hit in with each revolution.

I'd like it so the player can do some advance damage on the body
before the arms are destroyed, but I want to have it so that
destroying the body before the arms is theoretically possible, but
practically not doable for those who aren't Greg.

Once all limbs are destroyed, the remaining hulk flies around, trying
to crush Sam against walls, until blown up.



MAUDE

Maude is found half-way through the zoo.  When Sam enters Maude's
little room, the scrolling is locked into that room.

If Maude is far away from sam, then Maude's intent is to scream, then
charge at Sam, once close enough whip tails at him.  The tails will
whip towards where-ever Sam, being flat infront of Maude or on one of
the little platforms.

If Sam is within tail-whipping distance from Sam, during any pattern,
will just try to whip him.

If Sam gets behind Maude, Maude will yell in angry confusion before
turning around.

Maude will phase slighty after Sam in all cases.


HOWARD

Touching Howard hurts the player.  Howard drips deadly fluid
constantly, which also hurts.  Howard drifts with spinning flame rings
around him (using blaze ephemeral).  He slowly seeks grab the hero and
drip spitty black ichor on him.  If player phases, Howard phases too
and tries to grab him again immediately.

Howard occasionally slams onto the side of the play-field, and sticks
onto the side-most wall, from where he spews fire in a downward arc at
player (this fire is made by a string of the torch ephemeral).  It's
safe from this fire directly underneath him, and if you phase, briefly
the screen is clear of fire, until Howard phases with you, as he
flames.

Howard also rises to the top of the screen, fans out his tentacles and
drops ichor over a wider radius (in which there is room enough to
actively dodge).

These elements occur in a forewarned fashion, each occuring randomly.
The spewing of the the flames is forewarned by Howard attaching to the
wall.  The grabbing attack is forewarned by his slow drifting toward
the player.  The wide spread dripping attack is forewarned by a brief
pause after giving up his grabbing attempts, then he rises.

When defeated by Sam, phasic explosions consume him and he's gone.


JUNO

When Sam enters the lobby of the office stage, Juno falls down from
the ceiling and lands behind him.  Boss time!

The horizontal scrolling limits are from the pillar on the left to the
stairs on the right.  There is no vertical scrolling limit.

Juno likes to stay in the air and use her double jumps a lot.  Her only
concern is trying to arrange to land right next to Sam and begin her
vicious combo.  The blows from this combo do not allow any
invulnerability time and does not knock Sam back, until the last kick
(She does the punching combo followed by a kicking combo.) She will
correct the distance if she lands a little to far for the combo by
taking a few steps towards Sam.

If Sam jumps at Juno while she's in the air herself, she will choose
her response based on how high Sam is when he gets in range to do his
wave.  If he's higher than her, she will double jump straight up and
kick him in the face.  Perhaps jump backward and kick him in the face.
If Sam is in the air and falling toward her on the ground, she will do
her ducking kick in hopes to duck Sam's attack and kick him in the
nuts.

She flees upward after beaten.


STOMPER BOSS

The stomper boss falls down infront of Sam in the auditorium in the
office stage.  The horizontal limits are from the exit to the left to
the stairs to the right.

This thing walks slowly around aiming it's rot-scale guns down at the
hero, keep them trained on him during all movement.  Periodically they
rapidly fire deadly shells in a volley like a machine gun (using the
shell ephemeral, spawning the spak ephemeral when they collide with
the ground).  While they are firing, the guns cannot turn.

Hitting any part of it (except the barrels) with a wave will damage
the whole thing.  Touching it's stomping feet will hurt Sam.

This machine moves in to the position wherein it's guns can train on
Sam at about 120 degrees.  If Sam gets a little bit closer, it will
move back.  If Sam gets really close, it will quickly stomp forward in
an attempt to crush him.

Occasionally it will take a step back, make a loud servo noise, and
train it's guns right infront of it's feet and start firing as it pans
it's guns slowly upward sweeping the whole floor.  The way to dodge
this is by running back from the stream (it doesn't advance too
quickly) and then jumping into it while phasing.  While the giant
droid will just phase with Sam, by then Sam will be safe under the
volley.

After damaged enough, it will just explode.  It's components can
collapse and the robot-bit ephemerals will fly everywhere.  Maybe big
flashes and white light filters during the explosion.


JUNO & DAEDELUS

Both Juno and Daedelus will execute their normal routines as before
simultaneously.  They will take turns moving in to strike, and retreat
and wait as the other makes an attack.

If Sam is threatening the waiting party while the other party is
attacking him, they will just do an ordinary attack in the nature of
jumping to meet Sam and hit him, or just running a little closer to
hit him.

What determines who is going to go on the offense is whoever is closer
to Sam when it comes time to choose.  The time to choose it determined
by the success of the last attack; if the attack was dodged
completely, the same representative will try again.  It the attack was
countered with a strike back from Sam, the other representative will
step in.

When one representative is defeated by Sam, they will reel back and be
engulfed by a strange vortex and never be seen again.

When one representative remains, they will revert to the AI they were
using in the first encounter that Sam had with them.


QUANTUM SHIFTER BOSS

This Boss is dual phase.  The Shifter boss floats around while it's
drones orbit it.  There is one drone in each phase.  The Shifter has a
shield that protects it in both phases (shield ephemeral), but when
the shield is hit in one phase, it's not there in the other phase
briefly, allowing damage to be done to the Shifter.

The alpha world the drone shoots fast moving lasers that fly
horizontally (using ray ephemeral) in Sam's direction from where ever
the drone is in orbit.  In the beta world the drone shoots a stream of
slow moving rings of energy (ring ephemeral) that drift towards Sam.

Periodically the drones line up on one side of the Shifter (the side
that Sam's on at the time).  Both drones shoot huge beams, one phase
firing high, and the other phase firing low (chosen randomly).  The
player is warned as he will see a particular drone move to the
formation.

Blow it up.


MINOS FINAL ENCOUNTER

After walking into the apparatus lower room, Minos will flip down from
the ceiling.

Whenever Minos is parallel to Sam horizontally, he will fire at him
(unless there is an obstruction).  If Sam is far away, he will charge
fire at him.  When Sam gets close to Minos, Minos will climb the
nearest wall.

If Sam is pursuing him by wall-jumping, Minos will climb down again to
get parallel to Sam and fire a shot at him.  This will knock Sam down,
and Minos will follow him by letting go and meeting him on the ground,
for another attempt at hitting him in the face.  

Presumably, a good technique for the player would be to tap lightly
when wall jumping to bring Sam face to face with Minos and then beat
on him until you fall downward, catching the wall beneath him (as to
not suffer fall damage.)


PSYCHO MINOS CHASE

Minos now moves by flying through the air in straight lines of any
angle until he hits a wall.  Then he grabs on and can climb if he
wants to.  He can now fire his evil projectiles in rapid bursts of
three, and he can aim them slightly up and down.  He is now lethal to
touch at all times.  All his movement is twice as fast now.

A smart player is struggling to get Sam upward, since Minos in this
form is indestructible.  So Minos' goal is to get parallel to Sam on a
wall or stand on a platform and take a clear shot at Sam.  Minos will
use his flying attack to collide with Sam after he's fired 1 or 2
vollies.

Sam can strike Minos and make him fall down from his flight or
climbing.  But he won't take any damage.

Once Sam reaches the top, EMPEROR will appear and fry Minos.  Sam is
free to go now.


EMPEROR

At the top of the apparatus, EMPEROR appears from the sky.  This is a
giant ED beast that floats about threateningly.  

	
	1st FORM
	
	EMPEROR follows a pattern of moving in a wide figure
	8 discharging slow but deadly projectiles.

	Sam can hit any part of it to do damage.  If Sam hits it 5
	times it will teleport to a place high up to get away, then
	start it's pattern again. 

	Occasionally it decides to stop, teleport to be horizontally
	parallel to Sam, charge at him then teleport out.  Since the
	creature is dual phase, Sam can't phase past the charge.  He
	has to hit it 5 times quickly to compel it to cancel it's
	attack and teleport away.

	After it's taken enough damage, the 2nd form kicks in.

	
	2nd FORM

	It becomes invisible.  Only for a second after phasing can you
	see the enemy.  It appears briefly when Sam strikes it.

	It moves in a figure 8 this time low enough for Sam to jump
	over as it passes.  After each loop of the figure 8, it stops
	at one of the far sides, and shoots a spread of projectiles at
	Sam.  It no longer teleports or dashes in this form.


	3rd FORM

	After a huge bright flash, the background is replaced with a
	madly scrolling fury of phasic crud.

 	There is a constant wind effect that blows Sam to one
 	direction and upwards (the upwards lift won't lift Sam off of
 	what he's standing on but it will make his jumps disturbingly
 	high).  Periodically the EMPEROR makes a huge flash, and the
 	direction of the scrolling mayhem in the background changes,
 	and the horizontal push of the wind changes direction.

	The ground is gone and replaced with an indefinite supply of
	rising pieces of rubble.  There are large and small pieces of
	rubble.  The small pieces rise faster than the large pieces.
	To keep from falling to his doom, Sam has to jump from piece
	to piece.
	
	The form is basically the same as form I but now 5 hits will
	not make it teleport away, and it's figure 8 is larger, as
	well as the projectiles being more numerous.  But with the
	change in surroundings, the dash is best avoided by jumping to
	a lower or higher piece.  In this way as well, Sam has more
	room to avoid the shots.

	Occasionally the EMPEROR will stop and release a huge slow
	moving blast that follows Sam.  After pursuing Sam for a
	while, it will drift off away from the scene.

	Sam has to damage EMPEROR a certain amount to forever destroy
	it.  After beaten, a huge vortex will open up and suck Sam in.
	Whether Sam gets the beta ending or the alpha ending depends
	on which phase he's in when he falls through the vortex.
	He'll end up in beta if he enters it in alpha, and vice versa.


EOF eye-clips 	
